# Random forest classification model
the script main comes from the notebook: 
https://github.com/kyralmozley/ids/blob/master/main.ipynb

## Run a script
usually to run a script, you may need to do something similar in a console/terminal:
```$> python3 main.py```

It may possible it does not work as the code has not been tested for all OS. 

## To go further
The script is pretty simple and clear where a part is:
- for loading the data
- for preprocessing the data
- for training a model 
- for evaluating a model 

Usually, to improve model's performances several actions are needed. 
First we need to perform an EDA (data exploration) to understand the dataset better. 
Then, we can use different models than RandomForest such as SVM, Gradient Boosting trees...

Please look at this github repo to get inspiration:
https://github.com/kyralmozley/ids

## Locust Test

A  locustfile is created that is mimic a simple behavior like 'running 1000 requests per second'.
A Locustfile test is defines three set of tasks in the class predictionuser that simulate user behavior for load testing purpose. It allows a user can perform the different tasks on the web application, such as making HTTP requests to the API and send post request the predictions into the mongoDB.

### Run server before the running the locust file

1. Create a __init__.py file of the project and add your MongoDB URL as MongoClient=<your-mongodb-url>
2. Run a script, ```$> python3 server.py```
3. Then run this script parallel, ```$> locust -f locustfile.py --headless -u 1000 -r 100```

and finally UI dashboard part start.....

# Dashboard App with React.js, MongoDB, Express.js, Cors, and Dotenv
This is a sample Dashboard application built using React.js for the front-end, MongoDB for the database, and Express.js with Cors and Dotenv for the back-end. The app allows users to perform Read operations on a collection of data and also displays charts generated by a machine learning model.

## Prerequisites
Before running the app, you will need to have the following software installed on your machine:

* Node.js
* NPM
* MongoDB

## Getting Started
To get started with the app, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine
2. Navigate to the project directory in your terminal/command prompt
3. Install the dependencies by running `npm install`
4. Create a .env file in the `backend` directory of the project and add your MongoDB URL as MONGO_URL=<your-mongodb-url>
5. Start the server by running `npm run dev` in the `backend` directory
6. Start the frontend by running `npm start` in the `frontend` directory
7. Navigate to http://localhost:3000 in your web browser to view the app


## Available Scripts
In the project directory, you can run the following scripts:

### `npm start`
Runs the app in the development mode.<br>
Open http://localhost:3000 to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br>
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm run build`
Builds the app for production to the build folder.<br>
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br>
Your app is ready to be deployed!

### `npm run eject`
**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can't go back!**
If you aren't satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you're on your own.

You don't have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn't feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn't be useful if you couldn't customize it when you are ready for it.


## Built With
* React.js - A JavaScript library for building user interfaces
* MongoDB - A cross-platform document-oriented database program
* Express.js - A web application framework for Node.js
* Cors - A middleware that allows Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
* Dotenv - A module that loads environment variables from a .env file
* Chart.js - A JavaScript library for data visualization that works with React.js
* Axios.js - A Promise-based HTTP client for the browser and Node.js
* XLSX - A library for reading, writing, and manipulating Excel files
* @fortawesome/react-fontawesome - A React wrapper for the Font Awesome icon library
* @fortawesome/free-solid-svg-icons - A library of scalable vector icons for React.js


## Dashboard and Charts
The app also includes a dashboard that displays charts generated by a machine learning model. The charts show data related to the collection of data stored in the MongoDB database. The machine learning model is trained on this data and generates predictions, which are then displayed in the charts.

## Author
Arsalan Habib - Initial work.
